are you thinking of taking on the
Toastmaster role at your local
Toastmasters Club perhaps you've signed
up and now you're thinking oh shoot my
meeting's coming up and I don't really
know how to do this role don't worry
you've come to the right spot in this
video I'm going to give you a live
example of me taking on the beginning of
an actual Toastmaster roll at my local
Toastmasters Club hey everyone my name
is Wade Patterson welcome to my YouTube
channel my goal is to help make you a
more impactful Communicator my videos
range from helpful Toastmasters tips and
pieces of advice to general public
speaking suggestions and communication
tips overall if this type of video
content is going to be beneficial for
you or you're interested in improving
your communication skills please
consider subscribing to my channel every
subscription helps me so much into
delivering this type of content to you I
recently had the chance to take on the
Toastmaster roll at my local
Toastmasters Club so I brought my camera
along so that I could shoot the
introduction and basically the
housekeeping of setting up the meeting
to give you an idea of how to initiate
how to launch into that Toastmaster roll
one thing I will note is that I have
another video which is going to pop up
in the top left which is all about how
to take on the Toastmaster roll with
details but it doesn't include the live
example it's a video I previously done
so this video with the live example
combined with that other video which
Dives deep into the Toastmaster role and
what you should be thinking about the
combination of these two videos if you
watch both of them you are going to be
set prepared and ready to take on the
Toastmaster roll alright let's jump into
that live example and then we'll come
back and we'll talk about what I did
when well what I could improve upon and
what you need to know before taking on
the Toastmaster roll
[Applause]
true theories
the first theory is that humor is one of
the top five most important elements
when it comes to public speaking in no
particular order I would include the
other four to be
speech structure
elimination of filler words such as
body language vocal variety and then
humor I believe to be in the top five
my second theory is that
self-deprecating humor is the most
powerful form of humor that we can use
and today we're going to explore what
taking jibes at ourselves really looks
like
before we jump in to the meeting rules
I'd like to quickly go over in the
agenda and a huge thank you to everyone
who has stepped up and take taken on all
of these roles we now have it completely
full thank you sue for stepping up last
minute taking on the toast Sue is also
our timer today Moya is doing triple
rolls which is amazing the humerus the
grammarian and she is evaluating table
topics we have Brandon who is a speaker
today Kim doing an eight to ten minute
speech and also signed up for General
evaluator thanks so much for doing that
Kim Margaret is speech evaluator for
Brandon Wendy is speech evaluator for
Kim and Andy is awe counter it's going
to be a great meeting so with that I'd
like to invite Sue back up to give the
introduction for the timer
[Applause]
foreign
so before we jump into the specific
niche of self-deprecating humor let's
talk about why humor matters why does
humor matter when public speaking it
does two very powerful things the first
is it relaxes your audience
audiences are very quick to judge
speakers especially if they've never
seen you speak before they're going to
quickly make an assumption if you know
what you're doing if they're going to
get value out of it if they're going to
be entertained and if you can make the
audience laugh especially quickly
they're going to relax they're going to
know that you have things under control
you know what you're doing but the
second thing it does is it relaxes you
as the speaker that universal sign of
laughter indicates that the audience is
enjoying themselves and there is no
bigger boost of confidence you can have
when you're on stage
doing two roles back to back we have
Moya and no pressure on humorist or
inspirational thought but the theme is
self-deprecating humor we'll see what
Moya comes up with help me introduce
Moya well there you have it that was the
live example of my introduction as
Toastmaster and as you could see the
theme of the meeting was
self-deprecating humor and to start off
the meeting I launched into that topic
with two theories my first theory was
that humor is one of the five most
essential categories for becoming a
better public speaker by the way
Shameless plug I have a course that is
all about the five Essentials of public
speaking with the link down in the video
description so if you want to elevate
your public speaking game definitely
check out that course there's going to
be a video at the end of this video that
talks about that course all right back
to the Toastmaster role so in my
introduction I mentioned the fact that
humor is incredibly important and then
the second theory I give is that
self-deprecating humor is the most
powerful form of humor and that was a
good way to introduce the subject to the
fellow club members and set the tone for
the meeting I then launched into some
housekeeping for the meeting going over
the agenda so that everyone was clear of
what they could be expecting over the
next hour and a half
this is important that housekeeping bid
at the beginning of a Toastmasters
meeting setting the tone updating if
there's been any roles that have changed
basically communicating with the group
and informing them of what they can
expect is an essential piece and
something you should really consider
with the Toastmaster role from there I
launched into the first introduction
which was the timer explanation of the
role I understand every Toastmaster Club
has a different agenda or structure some
are the same ours is a bit unique but
that is a role that we introduce we
always have the timer report at the end
of a meeting but we've recently added
this timer introduction so that new
members and guests can understand what
are those green and yellow and red
lights at the back of the room that is
what the timer introduction is for and
so I introduced that timer role as the
first role of the meeting for those of
you who have seen a few of my YouTube
videos before you know that in these
live example videos after you see the
live example I like to jump into what I
did well and what I could improve upon
but I'm going to shake it up a little
bit on this live example I know I
mentioned earlier in the video that I
talk about what I need to improve upon
but overall I was pretty happy with this
Toastmaster role and how I introduced
everything so instead I'm going to give
you some specific tips of what you
should be thinking about when you take
on that Toastmaster roll the first piece
of advice I have is to be prepared with
some clubs the Toastmaster roll has
additional responsibilities throughout
the week such as sending out the club
agenda so everyone is aware getting
people to sign up for the roles and then
in our club the Toastmaster is expected
to print off the agenda and have
physical copies there for those who are
attending in person whatever your Club
role of Toastmaster includes and if
you're not sure be sure to ask the VP of
Education or perhaps the Toastmaster
Club president who looks after your Club
ask them what is expected of the
Toastmaster and if you sign up for that
role know that there are going to be
responsibilities and extra work you need
to put in over the week to ensure that
you are as prepared as possible as
Toastmaster at a Toastmasters meeting
sometimes you are expected to fill the
gaps if there are rules that simply
haven't been signed up for not enough
club members perhaps attending that
meeting or there's different gaps in the
agenda be prepared to fill those things
as an example if there is no one who is
signed up for the grammarian role it's a
good idea to pick a word of the day and
have that printed off just in case
nobody signs up for it by the time of
the meeting in the best case scenario
someone on the morning of your
Toastmaster meeting or the evening of
your Toastmaster meeting may be willing
to do it but you've got that extra piece
of content you've got the word picked
out so you can easily hand off the
grammarian role to somebody in the
moment because you've already done some
of that preparation work but as
Toastmaster you should be prepared to
fill in those potential gaps the role of
Toastmaster at a Toastmasters Club
meeting almost definitely requires notes
of some sort you need notes as in what
the agenda is going to be for the
meeting if there are speakers there's
likely a speaker introduction or
information about the speech they're
about to give and if you want to
implement your theme there's likely
things you want to sprinkle throughout
the meeting that are pieces of
information about whatever the theme is
with that in mind you're going to likely
have a lectern to place your notes on so
at the meeting my suggestion is not for
you as Toastmaster to hide behind the
lectern but to have it set up
strategically almost diagonally to
yourself or off to the side that way
when you're talking to the group you can
still use that body language and then
when you need to reference your notes
you simply pivot you can pick up where
you left off and then turn back to the
audience and be able to deliver the rest
of your role one of the clearest signs
of an effective Toastmaster is his or
her ability to transition smoothly in
between roles these transitions are made
possible thanks to effective listening
on your part for example if the humorist
comes up and delivers a funny short
speech one to two minute speech and then
you shake his or her hand as they leave
the stage it's a good idea to make some
form of comment event about what it is
that person just spoke about which then
transitions to the next portion of the
meeting and this is an expert skill it's
not easy to do this but one backup plan
can be to have information little
tidbits of information about what the
theme of the meeting is that way you
always have content that stays relevant
that you can sprinkle in between all of
the roles before introducing the next
speaker who will be coming up perhaps
the most important aspect of a
Toastmaster is to keep the meeting on
time as Toastmaster you should
constantly be aware of where you're at
in the meeting agenda versus the actual
time and you should never have too big
of a gap between those two maybe three
or four minutes maximum but if you're
finding that the meeting's going too
fast perhaps you can have some backup
information fun facts about whatever the
the theme is is one example or asking
follow-up questions to certain members
of the audience to bring the schedule
more in line of where it should be or if
you're way behind in time you may ask
certain evaluations towards the end of
the meeting to be concise or table
topics is a good opportunity for you to
to get the meeting back on time so if
you're running way behind you can ask
the table topics Master to only ask one
or two questions or if you're way ahead
and you need to fill time encourage the
table topics Master to ask a lot more
questions to fill that Gap within the
meeting in my opinion the Toastmaster
role is the most difficult role to take
on at a Toastmasters meeting so if
you're planning on taking on this role
congratulations to you that is a huge
accomplishment in itself I hope this
video again paired with my other video
that talks specifically about how to
take on that Toastmaster role I hope
that that content helps you and be able
to take on this role confidently if you
do please leave me a comment below let
me know how it went I'd love to hear
from you and if my channel has provided
you any value at all please consider
subscribing it truly is the best way to
help me out thanks so much for taking
the time to watch this video I will
catch you on the next one people are
more scared of public speaking than they
are of dying
is it just me or is that wrong hey
everyone my name is Wade Patterson and I
am passionate about impactful
communication my YouTube channel has
helped hundreds of thousands of people
improve their public speaking skills and
I am thrilled to release my first ever
course which has taken my decade of
learning about how to become a better
public speaker and boiled it down to
this theme of mastering the five
Essentials of public speaking I know for
a fact that if you can dial in these
five elements and perfect them you are
going to be a phenomenal public speaker
Head and Shoulders Above the Rest just
by being aware of these things by taking
the time to digest the information in
this course practice it and then put it
to action through your speeches you are
going to become a better public speaker
as a bonus in this course I sit down
with the world's greatest freestyle
rapper Harry Mack and one of the
greatest keynote speakers in the world
Sean kanungu and I get their tips
firsthand of what makes them incredible
at what they do if you agree that public
speaking definitely should not be
scarier than dying sign up for my course
you won't regret it